Now that we've had a brief introduction to the idea of event procedures and event handling
in this video,
we'll look a bit more closely a document.
Events will take a practical example how document events could be implemented within a
Microsoft Word workflow.
Let's go into the Exercises folder and in the Section seven folder,
you'll find a document called Document Events.
Let's just double quick to open it on.
What we have here is simply a macro enabled document.
Let's go into the visual basic editor.
So as we discussed in the last video to work with document events,
you edit the code module off that this document object so he could just double click to
open up the code module.
And then we've got the to drop downs at the top of more deal.
On the left hand side,
we have the object drop down.
So the only object relative to this document inside which we can place BB a code is the
document object.
So we choose document and the program automatically creates the default event procedure,
which were the document object is document new to check which procedures relate to the
document object on the procedure dropped out.
We can choose any of these options.
The ones related specifically to documents are new,
which is the default close and open.
You'll notice that there are several other event procedures available.
Many of them relate to content controls,
and we'll be looking at these in section 15 content controls and the interactive forms.
Only two of the three document event procedures could be used with macro enable documents,
the clothes and open procedures.
The document new procedure can only be used with macron able templates.
Any Cody place inside this event procedure will be executed any time the user creates a
document based on the template in question.
What will do in this tutorial is to create a little bit of functionality on each of these
events.
Let's start with document close and let's say that what we want to do here it's the very
form a.
If document has been saved,
let's say that we want to get everyone into the habit of saving a document before closing
it so we could put in if statement.
So let's say if active documents not saved equals false then and let's say chemistry books
don't colon equals please and show that you save documents before closing.
And let's continue on to a new line and use the buttons parameter and Phoebe explanation.
So this will just generate a friendly message.
It won't actually prevent the user from closing,
just a friendly reminder that the best habit is to save the document before you close it.
So let's put it to the test.
We haven't saved the document,
So when we closed up comes out exclamation mark message books.
Then when we click OK,
the Microsoft Word interface takes over.
We got the normal message.
Would you like to save on Weaken?
Say yes and we're back in business.
Let's go back in and now let's move on to the open event.
So for the open event,
let's say we want to display document properties,
thus allowing the user to verify that document properties exist.
Let's say we're working for an organization where document property such as title and
author,
a very important and we want to make sure that all our users keep this matter information
constantly updated just to remind you where this information resides.
In the word,
it's a face.
When we go to file in,
uh,
here.
Under properties,
we can go into advanced properties on the meta information.
Ah is displayed here,
So let's take probably the fall most important title subject author and keywords,
and we'll display those in the use of full will read the current values from the system,
display them in the user form,
but allow the user to body.
Find them from the user forms when they click.
OK,
we write the values from the user form back into the document.
So here we simply need to use user form don't show in order to display the user form and
then the user form will do the rest.
So I'm going to cool.
It frm properties.
So even though it doesn't yet exist,
I can put FRM properties,
not show,
and then we can go ahead and create it.
So just right.
Click on the project inserts use a phone and the first thing I always do is to give the
toolbox to the rights had underway on Let's change the names that frm properties.
Then let's trains the caption to document properties and the captions just displayed at the
top of be useful in the next three videos will be focusing on creating user forms and
setting up the event handlers behind the various controls.
So this video,
we're gonna keep it very simple.
Just gonna create four label andi textbooks pairs.
So just use in these two controls,
the label control on the textbooks.
We're just gonna go with the default sizes of everything.
So has our label.
Maybe the default size is a bit big.
So just resize that changed the caption.
So we had title and then the textbooks to go with that.
Now that I can select both of these using the standard techniques.
So click,
shift,
click drag on.
Then to copy them,
I can hold down the control key and just tracked down control Shift doesn't work,
by the way.
It's just control.
But the grid makes it very easy to keep them straight.
Is you drag So there.
Before that,
we wanted to do so.
We had title subject off the by the way,
As you're doing this,
if you accidentally double click,
this happens.
Eso we've got the current name of the label and then the program has just automatically
created the event hand left with the thing I double quick time.
So if this does happen to you,
simply delete the unwanted event handler because we don't want to track an event for the
label control on.
Then you close the code module if it keeps happening.
But instead of doing what I've been doing,
which is to change the which is to change the text in the control itself?
Just use the caption on Just Pop the text in the caption box.
In properties,
the properties is invisible.
Of course,
it's news and properties windows.
So this one was a final one that we needed to change.
This is keywords.
Let's just needs to be at the bigger where the full and I'm going to make keywords,
perhaps a couple of lines,
two or three lines deep on while it's selected.
Let's just set the multi online property to True so that we can actually display several
lines of keywords if necessary.
And finally,
let's create an O.
K.
Button.
So that's the command button control,
and then just click making form of it bigger to accommodate it on.
Then reposition at changed the caption on resize it.
So these are all the various controls now what we need to do is to name the controls.
No two approaches for this.
By the way,
you can either name everything.
So every single control,
the form itself and everything you put on it has a name that's a good philosophy to follow
because it leads to clarity.
On the second philosophy is that you name only those controls,
which you intend to manipulate with your code in some way for which you intend to attach
code to the first philosophy obviously means more were hurt.
But in the long run,
it probably leads to more clarity because if you don't name objects,
then they end up with default names that you end up with a mixture of default names and
your names,
which can give it confusing.
So in these videos I'll be naming everything in the interests of completion and clarity.
So these four are all labels,
and the prefix I'm going to use for labels is the common one.
Lbl So lbl title l VL some chick I'll be out author on lbl keywords.
Then we have textbooks is we'll use the prefix txt txt title subject also on keywords.
Finally,
the command button CMD